
## Quotes and Reflections

>	"In December 1998, Fidel Castro addressed the Young Communist League's 7th Congress in Havana, Cuba. The Soviet Union and the Communist state system in Eastern Europe had collapsed, which greatly weakened the cause of socialism. Not only was Cuba hit hard by the loss of its major trading partners and political ally, but socialists in general were penalised by the lethal argument made by the imperialist sections that "socialism had been defeated." After 1991, Fidel revived the phrase "Battle of Ideas", which had been used in The German Ideology by Marx and Engels. To the Young Communists, Fidel said:
		'We must meet, in the heat of battle, with the leading cadres to discuss, analyse, expand on, and draft plans and strategies to take up issues and elaborate ideas, as when an army's general staff meets. We must use solid arguments to talk to members and non-members, to speak to those who may be confused or even to discuss and debate with those holding positions contrary to those of the Revolution or who are influenced by imperialist ideology in this great battle of ideas we have been waging for years now, precisely in order to carry out the heroic deed of resisting against the most politically, militarily, economically, technologically, and culturally powerful empire that has ever existed. Young cadres must be well prepared for this task.'
	Bourgeois ideology had tried to sweep aside its most fundamental critique - namely Marxism - by saying that "socialism had been defeated" and that Marxism was now obsolete. Marxist criticisms of the "casino of capitalism" - as Fidel called it - were being set aside both inside and outside the academy, with neoliberal policy confident enough to ignore each and every criticism. Fidel argued that young communists must learn the fundamentals of Marxism - including both dialectical and historical materialism - and must learn this in a way that was not religious thinking but would allow them to become "new intellectuals" of the movement, not those who repeat dogma but who learn to understand the conjuncture and become "permanent persuaders" for socialism (the two phrases in quotations are from Gramsci's prison notebooks). The general ideological confidence of the cadre was not clear, and that confidence and their clarity needed to be developed in a project that Fidel called the Battle of Ideas." - **foreword**

- Petty bourgeois propaganda alone simply will not cut it. The contradictions of modern society must be 'boiled down to slow gravy', which is to say, simplified to their most core philosophical elements, in order for people to really grasp them. It is one thing to help someone understand that it's bad for people to be homeless; it is another thing, entirely, to help them understand the root cause of homelessness. We must teach our comrades to look deeper than the symptoms, and only then can we collectively 'cure the sickness and save the patient'.

> 	"Just a generation ago, Vietnam was the site of the most brutal war of the 20th century. More tonnage of bombs were droped on the Vietnamese people than were dropped by all sides combined throughout the Second World War. In addition, countless acts of cuelty were used to scorch the very soil of the nation. By the end of Vietnam's Resistance War Against Imperialist USA (known to the world as "the Vietnam War"), Agent Orange, napalm, and unexploded munitions had left a land deeply scarred and a people traumatised by decades of death and murder. The impression one had was that although Vietnam had won the war, it was so badly devastated that it could not hope to win the peace. But, miraculously, Vietnam is winning this war today, as the Vietnamese economy has become one of the fastest growing in the world and quality of life for the people is improving at a pace which could scarcely have been predicted in 1975.
> 	No one could have imagined that Vietnam would turn around so dynamically and rapidly. How did they achieve this economic miracle? How could this nation - so recently devastated by imperialism and war - possibly be able to reconstruct, revive, rejuvenate, and rebuild? That story is now unfolding before our eyes." - **Introduction by Dr. Taimur Rahman**



