
## Chapter I: The Commodity

### I. THE TWO FACTORS OF THE COMMODITY: USE-VALUE AND VALUE (SUBSTANCE OF VALUE, MAGNITUDE OF VALUE)

> "The wealth of societies in which the capitalist mode of production prevails appears as an *'immense collection of commodities'*; the individual commodity appears as its elementary form. Our investigation therefore begins with the analysis of the *commodity.*
> 
> The *commodity* is, first of all, an external object, a thing which through its qualities satisfies human need of whatever kind. The nature of those needs, whether they arise, for example, from the stomach, or the imagination, makes no difference. Nor does it matter here how the thing satisfies man's need, whether directly as a means of subsistence, i.e. an object of consumption, or indirectly as a means of production."

- Wealth is measured in material objects, so material objects ought to be the basis of our understanding of societies built upon the accrual and amassing of wealth.
- The *commodity* is simply a physical object, manufactured by *human labor* which fulfills some physical or mental human need as a *use-value* (food, housing, production, entertainment, education, childcare, etc.).

##### Use-Value

> "The usefulness of a thing makes it a *use-value*." *But this usefulness does not dangle in mid-air. It is conditioned by the physical properties of the commodity, and has no existence apart from the latter.* It is therefore the physical body of the commodity itself, for instance iron, corn, a diamond, which is the use-value or useful thing. *This property of a commodity is independent of the amount of labor required to appropriate its useful qualities.*
> 
> When examining use-values, we always assume we are dealing with definite quantities, such as dozens of watches, yards of linen, or tons of iron. The use-values of commodities provide the material for a special branch of knowledge, namely the commercial knowledge of commodities. Use-values are only realized (*verwirklicht*) in use or in consumption. They constitute the material content of wealth, whatever its social form may be. In the form of society to be considered here they are also the material bearers (*Träger*) of...*exchange value.*"

- The *use-value* of a commodity, or a commodity as use-value, is it's usefulness defined by it's physical form, and the material purpose that physical form serves. Natural objects, made without the labor of mankind, such as arable land, skipping stones, good lumber, etc., *can be use-values, but cannot be commodities* as to be a *commodity* is, necessarily, to be brought into being by *human labor*.
- *Use-value*, being only one side of the nature of a *commodity*, ought to be, in it's analysis, algebraically isolated from other forms of value; in other words, quantities of a given commodity ought to be assumed static so that the nature of the dependent quantity called *use-value* can be examined (just as one would scientifically study any other matter).

##### Exchange-Value

> "*Exchange-value* appears first of all as the quantitative relation, the proportion, in which *use-values* of one kind exchange for *use-values* of another kind. *This relation changes constantly with time and place.* Hence *exchange-value* appears to be something accidental and purely relative, and consequently an intrinsic value, i.e. an *Exchange-value* that is inseparably connected with the commodity, inherent in it, seems a contradiction in terms. Let us consider the matter more closely.
> 
> A given *commodity*, a quarter of wheat for example, is exchanged for *x* boot-polish, *y* silk, or *z* gold, etc. In short, it is exchanged for other commodities in the most diverse proportions. *Therefore the wheat has many exchange-values instead of one.* But *x* boot-polish, *y* silk or *z* gold, etc., must, as *exchange-values*, be mutually replaceable or of identical magnitude.*It follows from this, firstly, the valid exchange-values of a particular commodity express something equal, and secondly, exchange-value cannot be anything other than the mode of expression, the 'form of appearance', of a content distinguishable from it.*"

- The amount of *commodity a* which one can reasonably trade for *commodity b* can change drastically based on material reality, for example, the availability of each commodity in the local area, the need existing for their production, etc.
- Multiple *commodities* can hold different *exchange-value* relationships with other *commodities*, but these different *exchange-value* relationships must necessarily be 'of identical magnitude', or of an equal value, given that they are all the *exchange-values* of a specific quantity of a specific *commodity*. 
	- From this conclusion, we can see that *exchange-values* express an aspect which is both shared between *commodities* and are also simply the 'form of appearance' of an other *commodity*, distinguishable in *use-value*, from the point-of-view of the one *commodity*.
		- In other words, the term *exchange-value* refers to the *relationship between commodities* and in the specific context of their *comparative value* against other *commodities*. The *exchange value* of *commodity b* to *commodity a* is just a complex mirror which *commodity a* holds up to *commodity b*; this mirror contains all the material, historical, and social elements of society and reflects *exchange-value*.



> "Let us now take two commodities, for example corn and iron. Whatever their exchange relation may be, it can always be represented by an equation in which a given quantity of corn is equated to some quantity of iron, for instance *1 quarter of corn = x cwt of iron*. What does this equation signify? It signifies that a common element of identical magnitude exists in two different things, in 1 quarter of corn and similarly in xcwt of iron. Both are therefore equal to a third thing, which is neither the one nor the other. Each of them, so far as it is *exchange-value*, must therefore be reducible to this third thing.
> 
> A simple geometrical example will illustrate this. *In order to determine and compare the areas of all rectilinear figures we split them up into triangles. Then the triangle itself is reduced to an expression totally different from its visible shape: half the product of the base and the altitude, In the same way the exchange values of commodities must be reduced to a common element, of which they represent a greater or a lesser quantity.*
> 
> This common element cannot be a geometrical, physical, chemical, or other natural property of commodities. *Such properties come into consideration only to the extent that they make the commodities useful, i.e. turn them into use-values.* But clearly, the exchange relation of commodities is characterized precisely by its abstraction from their use-values. *Within the exchange relation, one use-value is worth just as much as another, provided only that it is present in the appropriate quantity.* Or as old Barbon says: 'One sort of wares are as good as another, if the value be equal. There is no difference or distinction in things of equal value...'
> 
> *As use-values, commodities differ above all in quality, while as exchange-values they can only differ in quantity, and therefore do not contain an atom of use-value.*"

- This distinction between *use-value* and *exchange-value* is the first fundamental lesson of Capital, and it informs, and is in turn informed by, the distinction between *qualitative* and *quantitative* relationships. The ways in which fundamentally contradictory aspects within a single thing interact both within the thing itself and with the world outside the thing constitute an important philosophical pillar of scientific socialism.

> "*If then we leave out of consideration the use value of commodities, they have only one common property left, that of being products of labor.* But even the product of labor itself has undergone a change in our hands. If we make abstraction from its use value, we make abstraction at the same time from the material elements and shapes that make the product a use value; we see in it no longer a table, a house, yarn, or any other definite kind of productive labor. *Along with the useful qualities of the products themselves, we put out of sight both the useful character of the various kinds of labor embodied in them, and the concrete forms of that labor; there is nothing left but what is common to them all; all are reduced to one and the same sort of labor, human labor in the abstract.*
> 
> Let us now consider the residue of each of these products; it consists of the same unsubstantial reality in each, a mere congelation of homogenous human labor, of labor power expended without regard to the mode of its expenditure. *All that these things now tell us is, that human labor power has been expended in their production, that human labor is embodied in them. When we look at as crystals of this social substance, common to them all, they are* - *Values*."

- Continuing the reduction of the value of commodities to it's most basic elements, there is one aspect of their existence which they all share in common: *the fact that they are products of human labor*. 
	- Despite the differences in *use-value* and *exchange-value* which exist between all commodities as *qualitative differences*, all commodities share in the *qualitative similarity* that *they exist only as products of abstract human labor*

> "We have seen that *when commodities are exchanged, their exchange value manifests itself as something totally independent of their use value.* But if we abstract from their use value, there remains their *Value* as defined above. *Therefore, the common substance that manifests itself in the exchange value of commodities, whenever they are exchanged, is their value.* The progress of our investigation will show that exchange value is the only form in which the value of commodities can manifest itself or be expressed. For the present, however, we have to consider the nature of value independently of this, its form."

- The *value* of a commodity is that aspect of it's nature *which is manifested in the exchange value, but is not itself the exchange value*; the *value* of a commodity being tied to the *socially-necessary labor* crystallized in the commodity rather than the *current socially-accepted or mandated exchange rates among other commodities*.

> "A use value, or useful article, therefore, has value only because human labor in the abstract has been embodied or materialized in it. How, then, is the magnitude of this value to be measured? Plainly, by the quantity of the value-creating substance, the labor, contained in the article. *The quantity of labor, however, is measured by its duration, and labor time in its turn finds its standard in weeks, days, and hours.*
> 
> Some people might think that if the value of a commodity is determined by the quantity of labor spent on it, the more idle and unskillful the laborer, the more valuable would his commodity be, because more time would be required in its production. *The labor, however, that forms the substance of value, is homogenous human labor, expenditure of one uniform labor power. The total labor power of society, counts here as one homogenous mass of human labor power, composed though it be of innumerable individual units.* Each of these units is the same as any other, so far as it has the character of the average labor power of society, and takes effect as such; that is, so far as it requires for producing a commodity, no more time than is needed on an average, no more than is socially necessary. The labor time socially necessary is that required to produce an article under the normal conditions of production, and with the average degree of skill and intensity prevalent at the time. *The introduction of power-looms into England probably reduced by one-half the labor required to weave a given quantity of yarn into cloth. The hand-loom weavers, as a matter of fact, continued to require the same time as before; but for all that, the product of one hour of their labor represented after the change only half an hour's social labor, and consequently fell to one-half its former value.*
> 
> We see then that *that which determines the magnitude of the value of any article is the amount of labor socially necessary, or the labor time socially necessary for its production.* Each individual commodity, in this connection, is to be considered as an average sample of its class. Commodities, therefore, in which equal quantities of labor are embodied, or which can be produced in the same time, have the same value. The value of one commodity is to the value of any other, as the labor time necessary for the production of the one is to that necessary for the production of the other. *"As values, all commodities are only definite masses of congealed labor time."*"

- The *value* of *commodities* is determined by the amount of human labor embodied within them. This does not mean "the amount of labor I, as an individual, put in to producing this commodity", but rather "the amount of labor which is necessary on average within the society I am a part of to produce this commodity."
	- To clarify further, if it takes worker *a* 2 hours to construct an identical stool which it takes worker *b* 1 hour to construct, worker *a* will receive half as much compensation for their labor-time as worker *b*.

> "The value of a commodity would therefore remain constant, if the labor time required for its production also remained constant. But the latter changes with every variation in the productiveness of labor. This productiveness is determined by various circumstances, amongst others, by the average amount of skill of the workers, the state of science, and the degree of its means of production, and by the physical conditions. For example, the same amount of labor in favorable seasons is embodied in 8 bushels of corn, and in unfavorable, only in four. The same labor extracts from rich mines more metal than from poor mines. Diamonds are of very rare occurrence on the earth's surface, and hence their discovery costs, on an average, a great deal of labor time. Consequently much labor is represented in a small compass. Jacob doubts whether gold has ever been paid for at its full value. This apples still more to diamonds... With richer mines, the same quantity of labor would embody itself in more diamonds, and their value would fall. If we could succeed at a small expenditure of labor, in converting carbon into diamonds, their value might fall below that of bricks. *In general, the greater the productiveness of labor, the less is the labor time required for the production of an article, the less is the amount of labor crystallized in that article, and the less is its value; and vice versâ, the less the productiveness of labor, the greater is the labor time required for the production of an article, and the greater is its value.* ***The value of a commodity, therefore, varies directly as the quantity, and inversely as the productiveness, of the labor incorporated in it.***"

- This passage is very important to grasp. At my current understanding, the takeaway is this:
	- The greater quantity of socially-necessary labor time is congealed within an object, the greater it's value; this relation is *directly proportional*.
		- In simpler terms: the more hours of human work it takes to create a commodity, the more valuable that commodity will be. A bench is more valuable than the quantity of unfinished timber it contains precisely because more labor has gone into the production of the bench.
	- The lower quality of socially-available labor is congealed within an object, the greater it's value; this relation is *inversely proportional*
		- In simpler terms: hand-woven materials cost a great deal more when hand-weaving was the most advanced form of social production of textiles; when the mechanical loom made it's appearance, and the quality of labor on average increased greatly, the value of the now mechanically-woven materials dropped. That drop in value was a direct cause of the reduction in socially-necessary labor time used in the creation of the commodity.

> *A thing can be a use value, without having value.* This is the case whenever utility to man is not due to labor. Such are air, virgin soil, natural meadows, etc. *A thing can be useful, and the product of human labor, without being a commodity.* Whoever directly satisfies his wants with the produce of his own labor, creates, indeed, use values, *but not commodities.* In order to produce the latter, he must not only produce use values, but *use values for others, social use values* (And not only for others, without more. The medieval peasant produced quit-rent-corn for his feudal lord and tithe-corn for his parson. *But neither the quit-rent-corn nor the tithe-corn became commodities by reason of the fact that they had been produced for others.* ***To become a commodity a product must be transferred to another, whom it will serve as a use value, by means of an exchange.***) Lastly *nothing can have value, without being an object of utility.* If the thing is useless, so is the labor contained in it; the labor does not count as labor, and therefore creates no value.

- Here, Marx further specifies what, exactly, makes a thing a commodity.
	- ***"To become a commodity a product must be transferred to another, whom it will serve as a use value, by means of an exchange."***
	- In other words, a commodity is a product which is exchanged (bought/sold) to a person other than it's creator.

### II: The Two-fold Character of the Labor Embodied in Commodities

> *At first sight a commodity presented itself to us as a complex of two things - use value and exchange value. Later on, we saw also that labor, too, possesses the same two-fold nature; for, so far as it finds expression in value, it does not possess the same characteristics that belong to it as creator of use values.* I was the first to point out and to examine critically this two-fold nature of the labor contained in commodities. *As this point is the pivot on which a clear comprehension of political economy turns, we must go more into detail.*
> 
> Let us take two commodities such as a coat and 10 yards of linen, and let the former be double the value of the latter, so that, if 10 yards of linen = W, the coat = 2W.
> 
> The coat is a use value that satisfies a particular want. Its existence is the result of a special sort of productive activity, the nature of which is determined by its aim, mode of operation, subject, means, and result. *The labor, whose utility is thus represented by the value in use of its product, or which manifests itself by making its product a use value, we call useful labor.* In this connection we consider only its useful effect.

- Much like the *use-value* of a commodity is it's material, social, etc. usefulness considered apart from it's other values and forms of value, *useful labor* is considered apart from the other values of labor in general.

> *As the coat and the linen are two qualitatively different use values, so also are the two forms of labor that produce them, tailoring and weaving. Were these two objects not qualitatively different, not produced respectively by labor of different quality, they could not stand to each other in the relation of commodities.* Coats are not exchanged for coats, one use value is not exchanged for another of the same kind.
> 
> *To all the different varieties of values in use there correspond as many different kinds of useful labor*, classified according to the order, genus, species, and variety to which they belong in the social division of labor. *This division of labor is a necessary condition for the production of commodities, but it does not follow, conversely, that the production of commodities is a necessary condition for the division of labor.* In the primitive Indian (read: Native American) community there is a social division of labor, without production of commodities. Or, to take an example nearer home, in every factory the labor is divided according to a system, but this division is not brought about by the operatives mutually exchanging their individual products. Only such products can become commodities with regard to each other, as result from different kinds of labor, each kind being carried on independently and for the account of private individuals.

- Because commodities are exchanged for commodities of differing use-value, and the creation of commodities of differing use-value requires the application of different kinds of useful labor, the social division of labor is necessary for the production of commodities.
- The reverse is not necessarily true, however; there can be, and, often, has been, a social division of labor for the production of use-values not for exchange but for communal use.

> To resume, then: In the use value of each commodity there is contained useful labor, i.e., productive activity of a definite kind and exercised with a definite aim. *Use values cannot confront each other as commodities, unless the useful labor embodied in them is qualitatively different in each of them.* In a community, the produce of which in general takes the form of commodities, i.e., in a community of commodity producers, this qualitative difference between the useful forms of labor that are carried on independently by individual producers, each on their own account, develops into a complex system, a *social division of labor*.
> 
> Anyhow, whether the coat be worn by the tailor or by his customer, in either case it operates as a use value. Nor is the relation between the coat and the labor that produced it altered by the circumstance that tailoring may have become a special trade, an independent branch of the social division of labor. Wherever the want of clothing forced them to it, the human race made clothes for thousands of years, without a single man becoming a tailor. But coats and linen, like every other element of material wealth that is not the spontaneous produce of Nature, must invariably owe their existence to a special productive activity, exercised with a definite aim, an activity that appropriates particular nature-given materials to particular human wants. *So far therefore as labor is a creator of use value, is useful labor, it is a necessary condition, independent of all forms of society, for the existence of the human race; it is an eternal nature-imposed necessity, without which there can be no material exchanges between man and Nature, and therefore no life.*

- Useful labor is by no means an element of Capitalism, or even of class society, but rather is a necessary element of human existence writ large. Without that labor which has a definite aim and a practiced course, humankind would have no recourse to appropriate the elements of the natural world into the food, shelter, clothing, etc. which we need to survive.
- On the same note, and because of this fact, no formation of human society can exist without labor; and no formation of human society can be truly productive which does not understand and respect labor and those who enact it.

> *The use values, coat, linen, etc., i.e., the bodies of commodities, are combinations of two elements - matter and labor.* If we take away the useful labor expended upon them, a material substratum is always left, which is furnished by Nature without the help of man. The latter can work only as Nature does, that is by changing the form of matter. Nay more, in this work of changing the form he is constantly helped by natural forces. We see, then, that labor is not the only source of material wealth, of use values produced by labor. *As William Petty puts it, labor is its father and the earth its mother.*
> 
> Let us now pass from the commodity considered as a use value to the value of commodities.
> 
> By our assumption, the coat is worth twice as much as the linen. But this is a mere quantitative difference, which for the present does not concern us. We bear in mind, however, that if the value of the coat is double that of the 10yds of linen, 20 yds of linen must have the same value as one coat. So far as they are values, the coat and the linen are things of a like substance, objective expressions of essentially identical labor. *But tailoring and weaving are, qualitatively, different kinds of labor. There are, however, states of society in which one and the same man does tailoring and weaving alternately, in which case these two forms of labor are mere modifications of the labor of the same individual, and not special and fixed functions of different persons, just as the coat which our tailor makes one day, and the trousers which he makes another day, imply only a variation in the labor of one and the same individual. Moreover, we see at a glance that, in our capitalist society, a given portion of human labor is, in accordance with the varying demand, at one time supplied in the form of tailoring, at another in the form of weaving. This change may possibly not take place without friction, but take place it must.*

- Herein Marx explains how individuals have, in some amount, always undertaken qualitatively different forms of useful labor all at once in certain states of society. Individuals may, by a matter of necessity, spend their time both tailoring and weaving in order to create clothing which is necessary for their well-being and the well-being of their communities; likewise, Capitalism also creates the conditions necessary for individuals to take up multiple, qualitatively different forms of useful labor within their working lives, whether or not it causes strife.

> Productive activity, if we leave out of sight its special form, viz., the useful character of the labor, is nothing but the expenditure of human labor power. *Tailoring and weaving, though qualitatively different productive activities, are each a productive expenditure of human brains, nerves, and muscles, and in this sense are human labor. They are but two different modes of expending human labor power.* Of course, this labor power, which remains the same under all its modifications, must have attained a certain pitch of development before it can be expended in a multiplicity of moved. But the value of a commodity represents human labor in the abstract, the expenditure of human labor in general. And just as in society, a general or a banker plays a great part, but mere man, on the other hand, a very shabby part, so here with mere human labor. *It is the expenditure of simple labor power, i.e., of the labor power which, on an average, apart from any special development, exists in the organism of every ordinary individual. Simple average labor, it is true, varies in character in different countries and at different times, but in a particular society it is given. Skilled labor counts only as simple labor intensified, or rather, as multiplied simple labor, a given quantity of skill being considered equal to a greater quantity of simple labor.* Experience shows that this reduction is constantly being made. ***A commodity may be the product of the most skilled labor, but its value, by equating it to the product of simple unskilled labor, represents a definite quantity of the latter labor alone.*** The different proportions in which different sorts of labor are reduced to unskilled labor as their standard, are established by a social process that goes on behind the backs of the producers, and, consequently, appear to be fixed by custom. For simplicity's sake we shall henceforth account every kind of labor to be unskilled, simple labor; by this we do no more than save ourselves the trouble of making the reduction.

- Another critically important passage in which Marx explains the reduction of different qualitative measures of *useful labor*, by their universal exchangeability, to different quantitative measures of *simple unskilled labor*.

> Just as, therefore, in viewing the coat and linen as values, we abstract from their different use values, so it is with the labor represented by those values: we disregard the difference between its useful forms, weaving and tailoring. As the use values, coat and linen, are combinations of special productive activities with cloth and yarn, while the values, coat and linen, are, on the other hand, mere homogeneous congelations of undifferentiated labor, so the labor embodied in these latter values does not count by virtue of its productive relation to cloth and yarn, but only as being expenditure of human labor power. Tailoring and weaving are necessary factors in the creation of the use values, coat and linen, precisely because these two kinds of labor are of different qualities; but only in so far as abstraction is made from their special qualities, only in so far as both possess the same quality of being human labor, do tailoring and weaving form the substance of the values of the articles.
> 
> Coats and linen, however, are not merely values, but values of definite magnitude, and according to our assumption, the coat is worth twice as much as the ten yards of linen. Whence this difference in their values? It is owing to the fact that the linen contains only half as much labor as the coat, and consequently, that in the production of the latter, labor power must have been expended during twice the time necessary for the production of the former.
> 
> While, therefore, with reference to use value, the labor contained in a commodity counts only qualitatively, with reference to value it counts only quantitatively, and must first be reduced to human labor pure and simple. In the former case, it is a question of How and What, in the latter of How much? How long a time? Since the magnitude of the value of a commodity represents only the quantity of labor embodied in it, it follows that all commodities, when taken in certain proportions, must be equal in value.