
# Input

> [!quote]- # The American Slave Coast: A History of The Slave-Breeding Industry - *Ned and Constance Sublette*
> ---
> ## Quotes
> ---
> - "*Partus sequitum ventren* was the legal term: the status of the newborn follows the status of the womb. Fathers passed inheritances down, mothers passed slavery down. It ensured a steady flow of salable human product from the wombs of women who had no legal right to say no."
> 
> - "Charles Ball described a deal that took place on the road in South Carolina: *'The stranger, who was a thin, weather-beaten, sunburned figure, then said, he wanted a couple of breeding wenches, and would give as much for them as they would bring in Georgia... He then walked along our line, as we stood chained together, and looked at the whole of us - then turning to the women; asked the prices of the two pregnant ones. Our master replied, that these were two of the best breeding wenches in all of Maryland - that one was twenty-two, and the other only nineteen - that the first was already the mother of seven children, and the other of four - that he had himself seen the children at the time he bought their mothers - and that such wenches would be cheap at a thousand dollars each; but as they were not able to keep up with the gang, he would take twelve hundred dollars for the two. The purchaser said this was too much, but that he would give nine hundred dollars for the pair. This price was promptly refuted; but our master, after some consideration, said he was willing to sell a bargain in these wenches, and would take eleven hundred dollars for them, which was objected to on the other side; and many faults and failings were pointed out in the merchandise. After much bargaining, and many gross jests on the part of the stranger, he offered a thousand dollars for the two, and said he would give no more. He then mounted his horse, and moved off; but after he had gone about one hundred yards, he was called back; and our master said, if he would go with him to the next blacksmith's shop on the road to Columbia, and pay for taking the irons off the rest of us, he might have the two women.'*"
> 
> -  "More slave ships came to New Orleans from the East Coast of the United States than from Africa... following the precedent set by the Europeans, who referred to the coastal regions of Africa by their exports... some writers have referred to the Chesapeake region as the Tobacco Coast. But it would also be appropriate to call it the American Slave Coast."
> 
> - "Africans were only the seed. By 1860, those few hundred thousand Africans had given way to four million African Americans. Each birth was, as Thomas Jefferson described it, 'An addition to the capital.' The south did not only produce tobacco, rice, sugar, and cotton as commodities for sale; it produced people."
> 
> - "Virginia had been slave breeding since the seventeenth century. It had the oldest, most deeply rooted African American population, and the largest. With far more slaves than any other state, and with much of the land already burned out for tobacco farming by the time of the Declaration of Independence, the agricultural productivity per laborer in Virginia was low. The most profitable thing for Virginia planters to do with their growing slave population was to sell young people to traders for shipment down south."
> 
> - "Prohibiting the African trade, as the New England delegates wanted to do, would create a grand bonanza for Virginia slaveholders - at the expense of South Carolina. But the delegates from Virginia had to compromise if they wanted South Carolina and Georgia to be part of the nation instead of an independent, belligerent, slave-importing competitor for power next door - one, moreover, whose territory was the overland gateway to territorial expansion into the deep south."
> 
> - "The migration or importation of such persons as any of the states now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a tax or duty may be imposed on such importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each person." - quoted from Art.1s.s.9 of the U.S. Constitution
> 
> - "Jefferson's pointedly undemocratic rule of the Louisiana territory assured favorable regulatory treatment for Virginia slaveowners. He asked Congress for, and got, monopolistic commercial restrictions on the slave trade into Louisiana; importation into Louisiana of slaves from outside the United States was prohibited, but importation into Louisiana of slaves from within the U.S. was allowed."
> 
> - "The constitution did not require the federal prohibition of importation of persons as of 1808; it merely stipulated that federal law could not prohibit it before that date. But Jefferson, who legally owned more than six hundred people during his lifetime, proactively made sure that importation of persons would indeed be prohibited as of the earliest constitutionally permissible date... To be sure, Jefferson framed ending importation of persons as a humanitarian act, and many historians have treated it that way, but it was not. Ending the African slave trade was protectionism on behalf of Virginia. It kept out the cheaper African imports so as to keep the price of domestically raised people high. Nobody in Chesapeake politics wanted more Africans coming in and devaluing their most significant assets. Over the long term, ending the African trade was a business coup on behalf of the slaveowners of Virginia, who were Jefferson's most loyal constituents throughout his increasingly disastrous second term as president."
> 
> - "With the African trade halted, those slaves that continued to be bought and sold brought profit to U.S. slaveowners, speculators, and slave trading firms instead of to British syndicates and African royals. Slavery required a slave trade, and with the trade in kidnapped Africans shut off, there was no slave trade without slave breeding. By deliberately creating a scarcity of slave labor from which profit could derive for those who could supply it, the 1808 cutoff of the African trade created an economic incentive for farmers to deliver as many homegrown laborers to market as possible, as fast as possible. The Maine-born Episcopal clergyman Joseph Holt Ingraham, writing under deep cross-gendered cover as Kate Conyngham, reported from Virginia in the 1850s that: *'So necessary is the annual decimation of slaves by sale to support these old decayed families, that it has become a settled trade for men whose occupation it is to buy slaves, to travel through the 'Old Dominion', from estate to estate... Here he gets one, there another, and in a few weeks he enters Lynchburg, Alexandria, or Richmond with a hundred or more... as it is, slaves are raised here more as a marketable and money-returning commodity than for their productive labor.'*"
> 
> - "[President James K.] Polk's success in extending the Southern slave regime to Texas instantly - and predictably - re-valued slaveowners' human portfolios upward. Including his own: Polk bought slaves in secret from his office in the White House on an ongoing basis during his presidency in the hope of building up his nest egg while he worked to extend the reach of American slavery." (for more see William Dusinberre's *Slavemaster President*)
> 
> - "[Harriet] Jacobs's memoir, *Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl. Written by Herself*, describes her abust by "Mr. Flint," whose real name was James Norcom of Edenton, North Carolina. One of only a few nineteenth-century slave narratives written by a woman, it is perhaps the frankest in its treatment of sexual exploitation: *'The slave girl is reared in an atmosphere of licentiousness and fear. The lash and the foul talk of her master and his sons are her teachers. When she is fourteen or fifteen, her owner, or his sons, or the overseer, or perhaps all of them, begin to bribe her with presents. If these fail to accomplish their purpose, she is whipped or starved into submission to their will... Resistance is hopeless.'*"
> 
> - "For enslaved women, who could be freely violated in the cellar, the barn, thle field, or anywhere else a captor chose, it was a system of terror. Beyond the purely venal incentive of unrestrained sexual activity, the existence of a market in young people created a financial incentive for slaveowners to intrude into the reproductive lives of enslaved women, leading to what Richard Foullett calls an 'intrusive policy of demographic engineering.' A blunter way of saying it is forced mating: enslaved women could be assigned to enslaved men by slaveowners, or impregnated by white men who had access to them."
> 
> - "Resistance to forced breeding was described by Mary Gaffney, enslaved in Texas, who described chewing cotton root as a contraceptive (as transcribed): *'Fact is, I just hated the man I married but it was what Maser said do. When he came to Texas he took up big lots of land and he was going to get rich, He put another negro man with my mother, then he put one with me. I would not let that negro touch me and he told Maser and Maser gave me a real good whipping, so that night I let that negro have his way. Maser was going to raise him a lot more slaves, but still I cheated Maser, I never did have any slaves to grow and Maser he wondered what was the matter. I tell you son, I kept cotton roots and chewed them all the time but I was careful not to let Maser know or catch me, so I never did have any children while I was a slave.'*" 
> 
> - "Although women, who had to do both field work and bear children were doubly enslaved, it bears emphasizing that forced mating was a violation of enslaved men as well. The evidence - and common sense - suggests that enslaved men and women overwhelmingly worked as partners when they could and were emotionally devastated when their marriages were broken by sale."
> 
> - "For a farmer, slave breeding commonly functioned as a long-term play to stabilize his finances, while adult slaves' labor produced the price-volatile monocrops that provided cash flow. The proportion of revenue deriving from the sale of crops versus the sale of young people varied from farm to farm. In Virginia and Maryland, where tobacco crops were increasingly poor and wheat needed fewer hands, it appears that many farms needed to raise tobacco in order to grow slaves, rather than the other way around."
> 
> - "The idea that one's ancestor was 'nice' to the people he kept imprisoned has comforted many slaveowner-descended families - and, indeed, some were less cruel than others. But in the days when First Lady Michelle Obama's great-great-grandmother had a child fathered by the slaveowner's son, it was legal nonsense to speak of raping a slave. To own a slave was to have license for libertine behavior, because sexual violation was intrinsic to slavery. The slaveowner had the full legal right to do with his property as he saw fit, and sexual use was part of the portfolio of privileges. The oral-history interviewees described forced mating between the enslaved less frequently than they did sex forced on enslaved women by white men."
> 
> - "Nor did enslaved women have legal protection against sexual abuse from enslaved men. In the 1859 case of George v. the State of Mississippi, in which an enslaved man was accused of raping an enslaved female child, the Mississippi supreme court noted that 'a slave can only commit rape upon a white woman' and held that 'the regulations of law, as to the white race, on the subject of sexual intercourse, do not and cannot, for obvious reasons, apply to slaves; their intercourse is promiscuous, and the violation of a female slave by a male slave would be a mere assault and battery.' - There was, then, legally no such thing as the rape of an enslaved woman."
> 
> - "A Missouri court effectively affirmed that rape was legally what Saidiya Hartman calls the 'normative condition' for enslaved women in that state when it sentenced the slave Celia to death in 1855. Celia, who had no last name, was hung for having at the age of 19 killed the man who had been raping her repeatedly wince the day he purchased her at the age of 14." 
> 
> - "Slavery was rape. A person who has no right to refuse has no consent to give, so even absent the use of physical force at the moment of the sex act, an enslaved woman could not have consensual sex with a white man. The lack of consent was explained away by what has become known as the Jezebel libel, which characterized black women as incorrigibly licentious, always willing, and irredeemably dishonored from birth."

> [!quote]- # The Face of Imperialism - *Michael Parenti*
> 
> ---
> ## Quotes
> ---
> 
> - "Many of our political perceptions are shaped by culturally prefigured templates implanted in our minds without our conscious awareness. To become critically aware of these ingrained opinions and images is not only an act of self-education; it is an act of self-defense. This seems especially true when dealing with matters of global impact, such as the nature of empire." p.1
> 
> - "[Carl] Becker argued that ideas and notions about reality do not spring forth from the mind in a social vacuum. They are pursued because they seem to fit into the ongoing climate of opinion. They reinforce each other, gaining acceptance through circulation and repetition. The notions that fit into the prevailing climate of opinion are more likely to be accepted as objective, while those that clash with it are usually seen as beyond the pale, and lacking in credibility. So, more often than we realize, we accept or decline an idea depending on its acceptability within the ongoing opinion climate." p.1
> 
> - "It is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends upon his not understanding it." - Quoted from Upton Sinclair
> 
> - "We have all observed that if something does not fit what people believe, they marshal their reserve defenses. Rarely when faced with contrary evidence to they discard their preciously held beliefs. And if they cannot challenge the validity of what confronts them, they have fallback positions that explain to their satisfaction the data that do not fit the pictures in their heads. When the orthodox view becomes so entrenched, evidence becomes irrelevant." p.3
> 
> - "Empires are also sometimes seen as innocent unintentional accretions that arise stochastically... In fact, empires are not innocent, absent-minded, accidental accretions. They are given purposive direction by rulers who consciously mobilize vast amounts of personnel and materials in order to plunder other lands and peoples." p.4
> 
> - "[Chalmers] Johnson and a host of others have produced shallow critiques of empire, characterizing U.S. interventionist policies as "reckless", "misguided", "inept", "bumbling", "insensitive", "overreaching", "self-deceptive", "deluded", "driven by false assumptions", and "presuming a mandate from God", while laden with "tragic mistakes" and "imperial hubris". They see all this as a mindless proclivity embedded in the American psyche or culture. We are left to conclude that U.S. leaders are chronically deluded, stupid, and incapable of learning from past experience; they lack the splendid intelligence of their liberal critics. For the critics, empire has little to do with economic class interests and is mostly a product of an aggrandizing national temperament incited by myopic overweening leaders." p.p. 6-7
> 
> - "In this book *imperialism* is defined as follows: the process whereby the dominant investor interests in one country bring to bear military and financial power upon another country in order to expropriate the land, labor, capital, natural resources, commerce, and markets of that other country. In short, empires do not just pursue power for power's sake. There are real material interests at stake, fortunes to be made many times over." p. 7
> 
> - "Arid Spain and Portugal siphoned off South America's gold; tiny Holland dominated vast Indonesia. Britain, barren except for coal, built an imperial swap shop of grain, lumber, cotton, tea, tobacco, opium, gems, silver, and slaves. Japan, less than a century out of it's bamboo-armor era, conquered much of China for it's iron and coal. The postcolonial era hasn't been any easier on the resource-rich have-nots." - Quoted from Donald McNeil Jr. in 'The Curse of Plenty'
> 
> - "In addition to the pillage of their lands, the people of these targeted countries are frequently killed in large numbers by the intruders... The purpose of imperial killings is to prevent alternative, independent, self-determining nations from emerging - nations that might threaten the imperium's hegemonic control, thereby jeopardizing its political-economic advantages." p. 9
> 
> - "The imperialists are among the socio-economic and political elites who are the keepers of the *dominant paradigm*. The dominant paradigm is the prevailing ideology or mode of thought that purports to explain how and why society functions as it does. The purveyors of the dominant paradigm in the United States... most certainly believe in it... The dominant paradigm tells them that all their wrongfully acquired gains and privileges are rightfully theirs." p. 10
> 
> - "Do those who put forth the lies of empire believe what they tell us? Sometimes yes, sometimes no... It is much like the advertising world: the prime concern when selling a product is not 'is it true?' but 'will it sell?' Is the message effective? Is it getting across? If so, then it is 'true' so to speak, and we can go with it. If not, then it is discarded. The approach to truth is purely instrumental." p. 11
> 
> - "Numbering among the victims of imperialism are the common people of the imperial nation itself, those who pay the costs of empire with their blood and taxes. *The empire feeds off the republic.* The populace does without essentials so that the patricians can pursue their far-off plunder. The center is bled so that the perimeter can continue to expand." p. 15
> 
> - "As to be expected, these colossal [military-industrial] allocations are encouraged by corporate America, first because such expenditures create a military might that boosts corporate global hegemony; and second, because military contracts are risk-free, set without competitive bidding or adequate oversight. They come with guaranteed cost overruns and bring in superlative profits. Defense spending does not have to struggle with sluggish consumer demand; there are always more advanced weapons to develop, obsolete weaponry to replace, soldiers to feed and shelter, and new wars to be fought." p. 14
> 
> - "There are those who say that empires are 'economically irrational' affairs because they cost more than they bring in. The British spent more in India than they were able to extract, and they extracted quite a bit. So too with the Americans in the Phillipines and in central America. But the people who pay the costs of empire are not the same as those who rep its rewards. As Thorstein Veblen pointed out in 1904, the gains of empire flow into the hands of the priveleged business class, the large overseas investors, while the costs are extracted from the general treasury; that is, from the 'industry of the rest of the people'." p. 17
> 
> - "But after the overthrow of the Soviet Union and other Eastern European communist nations, Washington made no move to dismantle NATO. Instead of being abolished, NATO was expanded to include nations that reached across Eastern Europe right to Russia's border." p. 21
>
> - "Do we still need NATO? Actually the U.S. public never needed NATO. The Soviet Red Army had neither the interest nor the capacity to invade Western Europe after WWII; state department studies have admitted as much. Does that mean NATO has been senseless or useless? Not at all; it is a valuable tool to lock the Western European countries into the U.S. imperial system, just as it is now doing to the newly capitalized Eastern European countries." p. 21
> 
> - "U.S. imperialists have assisted *counterrevolutionary insurgencies* that have perpetrated brutal bloodletting against civilian populations; for example, UNITA in Angola, Renamo in Mozambique, the *contras* in Nicaragua, the Khmer Rouge (during the 1980s) in Cambodia, the Mujahadeen and then the Taliban in Afghanistan (in the 1980s and 90s against a Soviet-supported reformist government), and (in 1999-2000) the drug-dealing Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army in Yugoslavia... All this is a matter of public record, although it is seldom if ever reported in the U.S. media." p. 27
> 
> - "When trying to determine the intentions of policymakers, we should look not only at whom they support but whom they attack. U.S. rulers have targeted just about all leftist governments, parties, leaders, political movements, and popular insurgencies - that is, any political entity that attempts to initiate equitable reforms, egalitarian programs for the common people, restraints on corporate capital, and self-development for their own countries." p. 28
> 
> - "US leaders profess a dedication to democracy. Yet over the past six decades, democratically elected reformist governments and revolutionary governments and movements, guilty of supporting egalitarian economic programs, have been attacked by their own military forces (secretly infiltrated and funded by the United States), or by US-supported mercenary forces and 'dirty tricks' operatives dedicated to rolling back reforms and opening their countries to foreign corporate investors and private market 'solutions' - such as what happened at one time or another in Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Cambodia, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, East Timor, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji Islands, Greece (twice), Guatemala, Guayana, Haiti (twice), Honduras, Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Lebanon, Portugal, South Yemen, Syria, Thailand, Uruguay, Western Sahara, and others." p. 32
> 
> - "Governments that strive for any kind of economic independence, or apply some significant portion of ther budgets to public-sector, not-for-profit services that benefit the people and bring self-development, are the ones most likely to feel the wrath of US intervention. The designated 'enemy' can be:
>   - A populist military gov4ernment, as in Panama under Omar Torrijos, Egypt under Gamal Abdul Nasser, Peru under Juan Velasco, Portugal under the MFA, and Venezuela under Chavez.
>   - A "

> [!quote]- # "Left-Wing" Childishness - *V.I. Lenin*
> 
> ---
> ## Quotes
> ---
> 
> - "...until the world socialist revolution breaks out, until it embraces several countries and is strong enough to overcome *international imperialism*, it is the direct duty of the socialists who have conquered in one country (especially a backward one) not to accept battle against the giants of imperialism. Their duty is to try to avoid battle, to wait until the conflicts between the imperialists weaken them even more, and bring the revolution in other countries even nearer."
> 
> - "From whatever side we approach the question, only one conclusion can be drawn: the argument of the "Left Communists" about the "state capitalism" which is alleged to be threatening us is an utter mistake in economics and is evident proof that they are complete slaves of petty-bourgeois ideology." 
> 
> - "Marx did not commit himself, or the future leaders of socialist revolution, to matters of form, to ways and means of bringing about the revolution. He understood perfectly well that a vast number of new problems would arise, that the whole situation would change in the course of revolution, and that the situation would change *radically* and *often* in the course of revolution." 
>   

> [!quote]- # The Building of the Communist Party of Kenya - *CPK*
> 
> - "*Kenya's destiny as a democratic socialist society, as a loyal partner in a community of nations, as a leader in our region and our Continent awaits the efforts of the CPK and all Kenyans.* So then should Kenyans join the CPK? We say do not only join us. Instead, when we come to implement change, let us already find your ready hands working. When we come out in peacable street mass action, let us already find you there. When we come to elections, let us find you already there as our candidate or voter for that change. We will be there. Let us meet there. CPK therefore does not ask Kenyans to follow. We say, let us instead meet in the efforts ahead of us, more and more Kenyans meeting together for the real change which is democratic socialist Kenya, the vision of the CPK and that of the overwhelming majority of Kenyans."
>   - This honest proclamation of the purpose of the Mass Line ought to be translated into propaganda for the American audience. A true understanding of the mass-democratic nature of Socialist construction would likely prove pivotal in 'winning over' DSA members and other liberal and petty-bourgeois minded proletarians and semi-proletarians. One must pay mind to verbiage in these situations, as the party cannot afford to fall into tailist reformism here in the Imperial Core.

> [!quote]- # Mao on Revisionism - *Nottingham Communist Group*
> 
> - *"The rise to power of revisionism means the rise to power of the bourgeoisie.* - Mao Tse-Tung.
> 
> - "Revisionism is the denial of the necessity for the proletariat to bring about the revolutionary overthrow of the bourgeoisie; it is the denial of the necessity for the proletariat to exercise all-round dictatorship over the bourgeoisie; it is the denial of the necessity of protracted class struggle throughout the entire period of socialist transformation of society.
>   
>   Right from the beginnings of the international proletarian revolutionary movement revisionism has repeatedly appeared within the ranks of revolutionary organizations. Marx and Engels opposed reformist elements in the German Social-Democratic Party, Lenin's struggled against the Mensheviks in the Russian revolutionary movement and Stalin battled against the Trotskyist defeatists who denied the possibility of sustaining socialist construction within one country.
>   
>   In fact the struggle against revisionism will continue right up until the time when communism is achieved on a world wide scale. This is because *revisionism is the form bourgeois ideology takes on within the ranks of the revolutionaries.* Until such time as the last vestige of capitalist relations of production are abolished, which are the cause of the division of society into opposed classes, the material basis for the generation of a bourgeois world outlook still exists. Only if the proletariat and its allies never cease to carry class struggle forward will the danger of capitalist restoration be averted."
> 
> - "In the People's Republic of China the Communist Party, under the leadership of Comrade Mao Tse-Tung, deepened and intensified the revolutionary struggle against revisionism, both within China itself and in the international arena again at the Soviet revisionists originally led by Nikita Khrushchov. At the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union held in 1956 Khrushchov delivered his notorious speech denouncing Stalin and his political line. The Chinese Communists had many differences and disagreements with Stalin but they were aware of the danger of throwing out the baby with the bathwater as this extract from a speech given by Mao in 1956 makes clear:
>   
>   *"I would like to say a few words about the Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. I think there are two "swords": one is Lenin and the other is Stalin. The sword of Stalin has now been discarded by the Russians, Gomulka, and some people in Hungary have picked it up to stab at the Soviet Union and oppose so-called Stalinism. The Communist Parties of many European countries are also criticizing the Soviet Union and their leader is Toliatti. The imperialists also use this sword to slay people with. Dulles, for instance, has brandished it for some time. This sword has not been lent out, it has been thrown out. We Chinese have not thrown it away. First, we protect Stalin, and, second, we at the same time criticize his mistakes, and we have written the article "On the Historical Experience of the Dictatorship of the Proletariat". Unlike some people who have tried to defame and destroy Stalin, we are acting in accordance with objective reality.*
>   
>   *As for the sword of Leninism, hasn't it too been discarded to a certain extent by some Soviet Leaders? In my view, it has been discarded to a considerable extent. Is the October Revolution still valid? Can it still serve as the example for all countries? Khrushchov's report at the Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union says it is possible to seize state power by the parliamentary road, that is to say, it is no longer necessary for all countries to learn from the October Revolution. Once this gate is opened, by and large Leninism is thrown away."*"
>   
>  - "By the early nineteen sixties it was clear that the revisionists in the U.S.S.R. were becoming consolidated into a new state bourgeoisie and were rapidly reinstating capitalist relations of production in Soviet society. Also in China the revisionist elements were strong, their leading representative bein gLiu Shao-chi who was President of the PRC. Throughout the nineteen fifties there had been many sharp struggles against the revisionists who opposed the Great Leap Forward of 1958 and the step-by-step collectivization of agriculture. Drawing from this experience, together with the counter-revolutionary turn of events in the Soviet Union, Mao began a campaign to alert the Chinese workers and peasants to the need for intensifying the class struggle as the key link in the process of socialist transition. In 1962 he said:
>     
>    *"Now then, do classes exist in socialist countries? Does class struggle exist? We can now affirm that classes do exist in socialist countries and that class struggle undoubtedly exists. Lenin said: After the victory of the revolution, because of the existence of the bourgeoisie internationally, because of the existence of bourgeois remnants internationally, because the petit bourgeoisie exists and continually generates a bourgeoisie, therefore the classes which have been overthrown within the country will continue to exist for a long time to come and may even attempt restoration. The bourgeois revolutions in Europe in such countries as England and France had many ups and downs. After the overthrow of feudalism there were several restorations and reversals of fortune. This kind of reversal is also possible in socialist countries. An example of this is Yugoslavia which has changed its nature and become revisionist, changing from a worker and peasant country to a country ruled by reactionary nationalist elements. In our country we must come to grasp, understand, and study this problem really thoroughly. We must acknowledge that classes will continue to exist for a long time. WE must also acknowledge the existence of a struggle of class against class, and admit the possibility of the restoration of the reactionary classes. We must raise our vigilance and properly educate our youth as well as the cadres, the masses and the middle-and-basic-level cadres. Old cadres must also study these problems and be educated. Otherwise a country like ours can still move towards its opposite. Even to move towards its opposite would not matter too much because there would still be the negation of the negation, and afterwards we might move towards our opposite again. If our children's generation go in for revisionism and move towards their opposite, so that although they still nominally have socialism is it in fact capitalism, then our grandsons will certainly rise up in revolt and overthrow their fathers because the masses will not be satisfied. Therefore from now on we must talk about this every year, every month, every day, we will talk about it at congresses, at Party delegate conferences, at plenums, at every meeting we hold, so that we have a more enlightened Marxist-Leninist line on the problem."*"

> [!quote]- # Loose Notes
> 
> ## On Martin Buber
> 
> [In the years before the establishment of the State of Israel, Buber proposed a joint Arab-Israel state, believing that "the Jewish people proclaims its desire to live in peace and brotherhood with the Arab people and to develop the common homeland into a republic in which both peoples will have the possibility of free development." Even after the proclamation of the State and the attack on it by the Arab countries, he still hoped and believed that Jews and Arabs would come to live in peace.](https://web.archive.org/web/20091222163127/http://www.jafi.org.il/education/100/people/BIOS/buber.html)
> 
> "Buber rejected the idea of Zionism as just another [national movement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nationalism "Nationalism"), and wanted instead to see the creation of an exemplary society; a society which would not be characterized by Jewish domination of the Arabs." - Rubenberg, Cheryl. “Peace: ‘The Other Zionism: Reconciliation Attempts between Arabs and Jews in Palestine Prior to 1948.’”
> 


# Synthesis

> [!question]- # Rough Ideas
> ---
> - Taking a deeper dive into the history of U.S. imperialism abroad, especially through the lens of 'the depravity of the bourgeoisie', in concert with the new light being shed on the history of slave-breeding in the U.S. and Jefferson's role in use of human beings as speculative capital while engaged in an economic coup which undoubtedly drove the country to the very brink of civil war, if not over that historical ledge, is tending to an interest in a semi-exhaustive history of the U.S. Capitalist class through the lens of dialectical and historical materialism; certainly it would be captivating and compelling, in terrible and tragic fashion, to teach the American public (as widely as I am able) both the all-encompassing and utterly inhumane violence enacted upon uncountable masses by our national bourgeoisie and the contemporary and lived-history examples of the same violence globally. Perhaps this could be a functional primer into the 'quantitative-vs.-qualitative' frame of thinking, especially if tied to a similar analysis of the Feudal or Monarchical classes. (Explore further through [[Towards a Broad History of the North American Capitalist Class]])
> 
> - You should apply some focus to the question: 'How can the American proletariat be made to understand and align with the aims of Communism without the contradiction of imperialist extraction and oppression and in spite of the ever-apparent spoils of empire at home?'
> 
> - Specifically on the question of Solidarity with Muslims: The Indonesian Communist party, the most populous Muslim-majority country, is one of the oldest in the world, older than the Chinese Communist Party.