## Preface

- *"Every revolution creates new words. The Chinese Revolution created a whole new vocabulary. A most important word in this vocabulary was Fanshen. Literally, it means 'to turn the body over' or 'to turn over'. To China's hundreds of millions of landless and land-poor peasants it meant to stand up, to throw off the landlord yoke, to gain land, stock, implements, and houses. But it meant much more than this. It meant to throw off superstition and study science, to abolish 'word blindness' and learn to read, to cease considering women as chattels and establish equality between the sexes, to do away with appointed village magistrates and replace them with elected councils. It meant to enter a new world.  That is why this book is called Fanshen. It is the story of how the peasants of Long Bow Village built a new world."*

- The book is based on notes by the author while he was attached to a work team dispatched by the Communist Party Committee of Lucheng County to investigate and guide land reform during the Spring and Summer of 1948.

- Parts I and II of the book are focused on the history of the village; overall focus is on the material conditions of the village and the actions taken by the villagers, under the guidance of the work group.

- The story of Long Bow is, at once, a microcosm of the Chinese Revolution and unique in it's circumstances and conditions, perhaps to a greater degree than most villages.
	- On the one hand, the village faced the same feudal contradictions as most other Chinese villages, and experienced a similar unity of action, petty-producer mentality, and tendency towards extremism as the rest of China during the revolution.
	- On the other hand, many things about the village set it apart from other Chinese villages:
		- The village had a sizeable Catholic minority, which was far outside the norm for China
		- The village contained many families without ancestral roots in the region, making for a weak clan structure in an era and region in which clan structure was the norm
		- The village was one of the few which was occupied and fortified by Japanese invaders on the edge of a formerly encircled area
			- As a consequence, Long Bow was within the minority of villages which had to be won back from the Japanese rather than the Kuomintang.
			- *"As an occupied village, Long Bow did not benefit at all from that long period of united resistance, democratic rule, and moderate reform which laid the groundwork for basic changes throughout the Communist-led Base Areas of North China once the Japanese War was over. Nor did Long Bow benefit from that extended period of internal peace that enabled communities in South, Central, and West China to carry out land reform calmly, step by step, in orderly fashion after the Civil War was over. Freed from Japanese control at a turning point in history, 1945, Long Bow leaped perforce from reactionary bastion to revolutionary storm center in the course of a few days. All the changes that subsequently occurred were not only compressed into a relatively short space of time; they were also warped by the intense pressures of all-out Civil War as wave after wave of Nationalist attacks swept across the highlands of Southeast Shansi. Long Bow was not the only village in China to be transformed under forced draft, but such villages were the exception, not the rule."*