> [!question] Inquiry should be made into what community actions have been made by the cadre recently and whether or not constructive analysis sessions have been made concerning said actions; if not, this ought to be brought up for discussion to decide whether or not the cadre is at a point which would make the decision to increase recruitment and outreach reponsible.

> [!question] Perhaps the thought of explaining to the general public the concept of "the negation of the negation" in a broad historical sense simply, and then more acutely in the formation and loss to dissolution, revisionism, etc. of previous and current nominally Communist Parties within the US.
> 
> It is my personal belief that the following statements are, broadly speaking, correct:
> 
> 1. The most simplified version of the idea of "the negation of the negation" can be easily understood by the average American with the correct framing, as it is a concept which is ever-present in the smallest areas of human life and the largest spheres of geopolitics in a qualitatively similar way. For example:
> 	1. The majority of forward social progress can be ascribed, in the most over-simplified manner, to the constant dialectic struggle through contradictions existing in society. Examples can be pulled from history, entertainment, lived experience, etc..; i.e. The process of human society moving from Feudalism to Capitalism, A unified struggle at work against a shitty vindictive boss, The plot of Breaking Bad or A Bug's Life, etc. etc..
> 	2. The history of the Communist movement within North America has followed the same process, at a vastly accelerated rate. 
> 		1. Using the example of my lived experience, the crimes of the American Capitalist Hegemony have been made known to the broader public in waves of ever-increasing size and force; this has created a whole variety of left-wing reaction with every wave (for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction). Although many of these left-wing reactions have carried with them the germ of petty-bourgeois thought and idealism, there has at every turn been a molten core of anti-revisionists who really take the business of revolution seriously. It is the task of these anti-revisionists to move like Lenin and Mao through the people as water, uniting all of these revisionist, idealist, and isolated sectors of the left into a 'unified front' in service of the masses, to free all people once and for all from Capitalist exploitation and colonialism. This is their task because this is the only strategy which can unseat Global Capitalism at it's throne, breaking it's World Hegemony into an archipelago of fractured and struggling factions to be swept up by the global Proletariat.