> "Marxism is the tool which allows emotion and vibes to be set aside (they shouldn't be purged' they are necessary for agitation and for praxis) to allow cool headed analysis of the material conditions present within any collective."

On this we are in complete agreement, comrade! In fact, the opening paragraph of this writing betrays your fundamentally correct understanding of the core concepts of Dialectical and Historical Materialism, which I for one appreciate seeing here within the panopticon of social media.

I fear that I must bring up some theoretical disagreements with other portions of the piece, but I first wish to state both that I understand my role in the intelligentsia as being somewhat separated, fundamentally, from the current stage of advancement of the mass line and that I enter this struggle fully embracing the formula of "unity-struggle-unity".

> "The Democrats (who I bring up because they are well known, not because they are exceptional in any particular way) were once the party of American feudalism*, but after the feudal revolution of the 1860s (the American Civil War, which was of course a battle between industrial capitalism of the union and the feudalism of the Confederacy) was put down and capitalism brought to power they became a distinctly capitalist class... A party is defined by it's role within society. The ruling party under Capitalism will, naturally, be capitalist. It is in the best interest of the capitalists, and the party, to accept bribes, capitalist domination, etc..., and to prevent successive workers uprisings; a suppression of the REAL movement in favor of SR menshevism, social democracy, etc..."
> 
> "...indeed, Lenin often repeats that the workers will be in charge, why exactly? Socialist state capitalism is contrasted with state capitalism in Germany in one way, socialist state capitalism has the workers in charge, German state capitalism has the bourgeoisie in charge. Why will the workers be in charge? Well because it is socialist state capitalism.... This is the most fundamental marxism, but under his distorted view, the capitalists will control the industries, control the economy, but for some reason, the workers will control the state."

In spite of your apparent understanding of Dialectical and Historical Materialism, you have failed (only in one sense) to apply it to the material conditions of the USSR under Lenin and have misunderstood his meaning in defending "state capitalism". There is also a fundamental error in the thinking that: 

> "After the people's proletarian revolution, which finally destroyed the bourgeoisie, Lenin argues that, wait, we actually need to re-establish them to get rid of the petit bourgeoisie, and then what?"

To quote one of Lenin's more successful successors, Máo Tsé-tūng:

> "Now then, do classes exist in socialist countries? Does class struggle exist? We can now affirm that classes do exist in socialist countries and that class struggle undoubtedly exists. Lenin said: After the victory of the revolution, because of the existence of the bourgeoisie internationally, because of the existence of bourgeois remnants internationally, because the petit bourgeoisie exists and continually generates a bourgeoisie, therefore the classes which have been overthrown within the country will continue to exist for a long time to come and may even attempt restoration. The bourgeois revolutions in Europe in such countries as England and France had many ups and downs. After the overthrow of feudalism there were several restorations and reversals of fortune. This kind of reversal is also possible in socialist countries. An example of this is Yugoslavia which has changed its nature and become revisionist, changing from a worker and peasant country to a country ruled by reactionary nationalist elements. In our country we must come to grasp understand and study this problem really thoroughly. We must acknowledge that classes will continue to exist for a long time. We must also acknowledge the existence of a struggle of class against class, and admit the possibility of the restoration of the reactionary classes. We must raise our vigilance and properly educate our youth as well as the cadres, the masses and the middle-and basic-level cadres. Old cadres must also study these problems and be educated. Otherwise a country like ours can still move towards its opposite. Even to move towards its opposite would not matter too much because there would still be the negation of the negation, and afterwards we might move towards our opposite again. If our children’s generation go in for revisionism and move towards their opposite, so that although they still nominally have socialism it is fact capitalism, then our grandsons will certainly rise up in revolt and overthrow their fathers because the masses will not be satisfied. Therefore from now on we must talk about this every year, every month, everyday, we will talk about it at congresses, at Party delegate conferences, at plenums, at every meeting we hold, so that we have a more enlightened Marxist-Leninist line on the problem."

Your statement that the Soviet Socialist Revolution "destroyed the bourgeoisie" is historically and materially false. Socialist revolution does not 'destroy' the bourgeoisie, nor should it attempt to; this would certainly be an error of strategy as well as an unnecessary embrace of opportunist violence. The purpose of a Marxist-Leninist revolution is to destroy the Dictatorship of the Bourgeoisie (the current formation of the state in the US, wherein the capitalist class hold the means of production in private ownership and maintain monopoly over democratic rights) and replace it with a Dictatorship of the Proletariat (a formation of the state wherein the working class hold the means of production in collective ownership and maintain monopoly over democratic rights).

It was understood in Lenin's time, as in Mao's and as it ought to be now, that scientific socialist construction is just that: construction; additionally, in the material context of both the modern world and the one of the October Revolution, the fact of the matter is that the capitalist class currently hold monopoly not only on democratic involvement, but also in large part (though not entirely, I will return to this point) on the knowledge necessary to maintain current global systems of exchange. The revolution does not 'destroy' the bourgeoisie: it subjugates the bourgeoisie, taking from them their rights to political involvement, organization, ideological struggle, etc. and siphoning from them the expertise, knowledge, and experience with which we can ensure the society we build collectively does not take leaps backwards from our current stage of development.

Lenin's arguments were, in your words, "the most fundamental Marxism", but his view was not distorted; it was, in fact, quite sober.

Before the Proletarian October Revolution, Russia was a backwards Feudalist state ruled by land-lords and Tsarism; The country had little to no modern (to the time) infrastructure, little to no working-class movement (because little to no working-class), etc. Returning to our sword Lenin, from the work in discussion:

> "If the words we have quoted provoke a smile, the following discovery made by the “Left Communists” will provoke nothing short of Homeric laughter. According to them, under the “Bolshevik deviation to the right” the Soviet Republic is threatened with “evolution towards state capitalism”. They have really frightened us this time! And with what gusto these “Left Communists” repeat this threatening revelation in their theses and articles. . . .
> 
> It has not occurred to them that state capitalism would be a _step forward_ as compared with the present state of affairs in our Soviet Republic. If in approximately six months’ time state capitalism became established in our Republic, this would be a great success and a sure guarantee that within a year socialism will have gained a permanently firm hold and will have become invincible in our country."

Lenin's defense of 'state-capitalism' was just the "cool headed analysis of the material conditions" which you stand correctly in defense of. Lenin understood, as we all should, the philosophical core of Continuity and Rupture before it was given that name, and he understood that socialist construction would not be possible under the poor material conditions of Feudalism; He understood that a working-class needed to be formed, that peasants en masse needed to become proletarianized, and that a healthy vanguard can only form through the organization of an industrialized working-class.

Moving on,

> "The reason why I see this [state-capitalist approach] as so shameful is because the obvious answer, giving the workers control of business, is right there. "But they need experience!" the capitalist saboteurs, now socialists, have the experience. Indeed the former bourgeoisie may lead these companies and defeat the petit bourgesoisie, but at the democratic discresion of the workers. This is so clear, so why doesn't Lenin see it?"

A continuation of the aforementioned misunderstanding, although there is a very important kernel of truth which you have found; one which I have not personally grappled with as much as I ought to. We, in today's world, amongst the universal dissemination of information on the internet, are far more well-postured than the Bolsheviks were to 'slough off' a far greater degree of the bourgeoisie in the act of revolution itself, although Mao remains correct in saying that "classes do exist in socialist countries and that class struggle undoubtedly exists." I posit that the purpose of a Dictatorship of the Proletariat in today's day and age ought to be more focused on anti-revisionism and defense of the revolution against our historically well-equipped bourgeoisie than with further development of the mode of production; in the imperial core, our capitalist development has long since passed the point at which it could, under a workers state, provide easily for all of our needs. Despite this great boon, the bourgeoisie will fight all the more fiercely, during and after the revolution, to maintain or regain their hold on power. We will, to play my own 'devil's advocate', state that we will certainly still need some greater or lesser period of state-capitalism as a transitionary stage in the rupture from Capitalism to Socialism, and in order to re-distribute wealth and make reparations in a democratically-organized fashion; But I agree that we should approach it scientifically and be very careful not to hand power back to the bourgeoisie in any meaningful way.

> "From Left-wing Communism: An Infantile Disorder... it is made clear the distinguishing principle between concession and opportunism; concessions are perfectly acceptable WHEN THEY SERVE THE WORKERS. Parliamentarianism is acceptable, except when a boycott can destroy parliament; working in a reactionary trade union is acceptable, and necessary; one must meet the worker where they are at... Indeed in this text he argues that it is perfectly acceptable to retreat, even to the urals, if socialism is maintained to bide time for the collapse of the Imperial powers through infighting. But this is a matter of retreat, not capitulation. Truly it is our duty to maintain socialism wherever possible, such that the working people have a workers state from which to strike at the Imperialists during their time of weakness."

Again, a very sober and correct understanding of Lenin's theory, although once again you state, in following, things like "But completely surrendering? Laying down our arms, giving the bourgeoisie the reigns? What socialism is this?" Who had given the bourgeoisie the reigns? History shows that the reigns remained out of the grasp of the bourgeoisie, at least in a systematic sense, until the revisionism of Khrushchev and his statements at the Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union that socialist revolution was possible via the route of parliamentary entryism alone, without the revolutionary example of the Bolsheviks.

To be perfectly clear, I am in complete agreement with the facts and ideological basis from which you approach the issue; you are obviously a principled and well-studied Marxist. My only real rebuttal is that the 'state capitalism' defended by Lenin was, in a real sense, the scientific socialism you define as being "when the bourgeoisie has been cast off, brought to ruin, and brought under the proletarian wing". 

As a final rephrasing of my core point: keeping the bourgeoisie alive and involved with production during socialist construction, and using the formation of 'state capitalism' under socialist organization to advance the mode of production in countries where it is necessary, is not antithetical to Marxism-Leninism so long as: (1) The Bourgeoisie is not allowed the right to political engagement, political or economic organization, or political propagandization; (2) The Proletariat are not only allowed but, indeed, pressured in every positive way to engage in  both political and economic democracy every single day, and; (3) All of the material proceeds of the continued production of commodities as exchange-values finds its way into the collective coffers of the Proletariat, denying the Bourgeoisie their longed-for ill-gotten-gains and instead redirecting this wealth to the purposes of domestic and international socialist construction, reparations for the heinous crimes of imperialism, and works of solidarity and support to our comrades around the world.

Separately, I am also deeply interested in formulating a new foundational understanding of Marxist-Leninist-Maoist socialist construction within the American context, as the point I made earlier in reference to the lessened need of state capitalism within this highly-developed bourgeois dictatorship is one that only came to me as a consequence of this struggle; it seems highly salient to our modern movement.



